ProductDirectionDocument.md, before:

# Jebra - Product Direction Document

## Problem Statement
1. **[SELECTED] Middle school to high school students misunderstand core math concepts since educators lack visual and engaging solutions to teach math. This leaves an opportunity for Jebra to provide math students with an interactive edutainment experience.**
2. Underfunded middle and high schools lack the resources to teach students math in an affordable manner, which can be solved through a free and accessible edutainment service.

## Customer
- Teachers
- Students

### Customer Demographic
- Teachers
    - College graduates
        - 65% Bachelor, 35% Masters
    - 20-50 years old, average 42
    - Remote teaching environments
    - Source: [Zippia Middle School Math Teacher Demographics](https://www.zippia.com/middle-school-math-teacher-jobs/demographics/)
- Students
    - Middle school and high school students
    - 11 - 18 years old
    - Global, since mathematics is language-independent
- School
    - Internet access
    - Devices (phones/tablets/laptops) available for students
    - Projectors (if needed)
    - Public schools
    - Large class sizes

### Customer Persona

- Jimmy - Struggling Student
    - Responsibilities
        - Pass 8th grade algebra
        - Study for next algebra test
    - Workstyle
        - Thrives with large scale collaboration
        - Uses phone for games and social media, school laptop for homework
    - Challenges
        - Quiet / afraid to ask questions
        - Not comfortable in small groups
    - Needs and Wants
        - Needs help with breaking down larger problems into smaller pieces
        - Wants algebra to be more step-by-step

- Alyssa - Unmotivated Senior
    - Responsibilities
        - Pass senior-year precalculus
        - Wants to place in Calc I in college without retaking precalculus
    - Workstyle
        - Prefers interactive learning
        - Uses school laptop for homework
    - Challenges
        - Unable to visualize abstract concepts like complex numbers
        - Has difficulty memorizing and applying trigonometric identities
        - Struggles with senioritis and has trouble finding motivation
    - Needs and Wants
        - Wants an engaging way to learn math so she can overcome her lack of motivation
        - Needs a visual/dynamic tool to learn precalculus

- Matthew L. Jebra - Tech-Savvy Teacher
    - Responsibilities
        - Meet yearly state testing requirements for students
        - Ensure students learn material to pass tests
    - Workstyle
        - Collaborates with other teachers in math department
        - Uses laptop to display lessons and other materials
        - Creates lesson plans with 1 day a week set aside for fun activities
    - Challenges
        - Students have trouble completing problems start-to-finish
        - Math lends itself to individual work
    - Needs and Wants
        - Inexpensive and easily accessible
        - Interactive solutions to traditional teaching problems

## Other customers or stakeholders
- School administrations
- Parents
- Tutors/other educators

## Application type
Web application that is compatible with mobile and desktop dimensions

## Tech stack
### Client Tech
- React
    - HTML, CSS, JS, React components and materials
- Redux (state management)
- Node
    - NPM packages
- TypeScript
### Server Tech
- C# .Net Core
    - ASP.Net Core Web API
- Azure functions
- Azure SQL Server
- Azure VM

## Top Application Capabilities (name at least 5)
1. Randomized math problem generation, across a multitude of subjects
2. Group game sessions with quick response times
3. Interactive interface for solving problems
4. Students can easily join sessions without needing to create an account
5. Teacher’s interface that graphically displays analytics from group sessions, allowing teachers to understand what their students have learned or need to improve on.
6. Support individual sessions on top of collaborative game sessions

## Top Two to Three Scenarios

### Scenario #1
Matthew L. Jebra is a math teacher who notices that his students are falling behind in algebra and aren’t engaging with the material. As a tech-savvy teacher, he sees this as an opportunity to find a unique and tech-based solution for this problem. He finds a service that will allow students to participate in real time from their own devices, and simply creates an account to set up a group session. With a quick search through the pre-existing material, Matthew selects the topic his students are struggling with and starts the game. Now all he needs to do is display the join code and allow his students to enter the code on their devices. Afterwards, he can see which class of problems his students need to improve on and have already mastered.

### Scenario #2
Jimmy just doesn’t understand algebra. He has difficulty comprehending the notation and the steps involved in solving equations, and he is too shy to ask questions. One day his teacher announces that instead of a normal lesson, they will be playing a game together as a class. Jimmy’s teacher displays a code on the board and asks the students to enter the code on the game’s website from their phone or school computers. Jimmy enters the code and joins the game. He and the other students solve algebra problems step-by-step to win the game with his classmates. The next day, the teacher goes over the concepts Jimmy struggled with on the whiteboard, and the next time Jimmy plays the game with his classmates, he feels more confident in his skills.

### Scenario #3
Sarah is a middle school algebra teacher who likes to make classes fun and engaging for her students. She has noticed over the last few years that her English and History teacher colleagues have been integrating student’s personal devices into fun games that help students learn about the material. However, when she tries using these same apps for math, her students complain that it just feels like another quiz instead of a game. This time Sarah uses a new app that creates a campaign for the whole class to participate in real-time while also providing much more intuitive options for solving problems step-by-step. After class, she can view how students performed across the different sections and prepare a different campaign for next time.

## Team Members
| Name | Location | Timezone offset from Chicago (Chicago is 0) |
| --- | --- | --- | 
| Tommy Vadakumchery | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Khiem Nguyen | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Nam Nguyen | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Daniel Tiberi | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Christopher Converse | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Emily Ciezobka | Chicago Area | 0 |

### Past Members (Relax in Peace)
- Isaac Kane
- Andrew Cordell

## Team Working Agreement
- We will use Github and keep items updated as progress is made.
- If we need to meet outside of class we have found a mutually agreeable time of 4-7pm on Fridays.
- If we need to meet outside of class we will use Discord.
- When we are not meeting together we will use Discord.

## Project Manager Schedule
| Week | Project Manager |
| --- | --- |
| February 1, 2022 | Tommy Vadakumchery |
| February 8, 2022 | Tommy Vadakumchery |
| February 15, 2022 | Christopher Converse |
| February 22, 2022 | Christopher Converse |
| March 1, 2022 | Dan Tiberi |
| March 8, 2022 | Dan Tiberi |
| March 15, 2022 | Emily Ciezobka |
| March 22, 2022 | Emily Ciezobka |
| March 29, 2022 | Khiem Nguyen |
| April 5, 2022 | Khiem Nguyen |
| April 12, 2022 | Nam Nguyen |
| April 19, 2022 | Nam Nguyen |
| April 26, 2022 | Tommy Vadakumchery |

Commit message:

Add trigonometry scenario to the PDD
Per our advisor's recommendation, I wrote a scenario about our new trig function capability, so that we can act this scenario out during our midterm demonstration.

ProductDirectionDocument.md, after:

# Jebra - Product Direction Document

## Problem Statement
1. **[SELECTED] Middle school to high school students misunderstand core math concepts since educators lack visual and engaging solutions to teach math. This leaves an opportunity for Jebra to provide math students with an interactive edutainment experience.**
2. Underfunded middle and high schools lack the resources to teach students math in an affordable manner, which can be solved through a free and accessible edutainment service.

## Customer
- Teachers
- Students

### Customer Demographic
- Teachers
    - College graduates
        - 65% Bachelor, 35% Masters
    - 20-50 years old, average 42
    - Remote teaching environments
    - Source: [Zippia Middle School Math Teacher Demographics](https://www.zippia.com/middle-school-math-teacher-jobs/demographics/)
- Students
    - Middle school and high school students
    - 11 - 18 years old
    - Global, since mathematics is language-independent
- School
    - Internet access
    - Devices (phones/tablets/laptops) available for students
    - Projectors (if needed)
    - Public schools
    - Large class sizes

### Customer Persona

- Jimmy - Struggling Student
    - Responsibilities
        - Pass 8th grade algebra
        - Study for next algebra test
    - Workstyle
        - Thrives with large scale collaboration
        - Uses phone for games and social media, school laptop for homework
    - Challenges
        - Quiet / afraid to ask questions
        - Not comfortable in small groups
    - Needs and Wants
        - Needs help with breaking down larger problems into smaller pieces
        - Wants algebra to be more step-by-step

- Alyssa - Unmotivated Senior
    - Responsibilities
        - Pass senior-year precalculus
        - Wants to place in Calc I in college without retaking precalculus
    - Workstyle
        - Prefers interactive learning
        - Uses school laptop for homework
    - Challenges
        - Unable to visualize abstract concepts like complex numbers
        - Has difficulty memorizing and applying trigonometric identities
        - Struggles with senioritis and has trouble finding motivation
    - Needs and Wants
        - Wants an engaging way to learn math so she can overcome her lack of motivation
        - Needs a visual/dynamic tool to learn precalculus

- Matthew L. Jebra - Tech-Savvy Teacher
    - Responsibilities
        - Meet yearly state testing requirements for students
        - Ensure students learn material to pass tests
    - Workstyle
        - Collaborates with other teachers in math department
        - Uses laptop to display lessons and other materials
        - Creates lesson plans with 1 day a week set aside for fun activities
    - Challenges
        - Students have trouble completing problems start-to-finish
        - Math lends itself to individual work
    - Needs and Wants
        - Inexpensive and easily accessible
        - Interactive solutions to traditional teaching problems

## Other customers or stakeholders
- School administrations
- Parents
- Tutors/other educators

## Application type
Web application that is compatible with mobile and desktop dimensions

## Tech stack
### Client Tech
- React
    - HTML, CSS, JS, React components and materials
- Redux (state management)
- Node
    - NPM packages
- TypeScript
### Server Tech
- C# .Net Core
    - ASP.Net Core Web API
- Azure functions
- Azure SQL Server
- Azure VM

## Top Application Capabilities (name at least 5)
1. Randomized math problem generation, across a multitude of subjects
2. Group game sessions with quick response times
3. Interactive interface for solving problems
4. Students can easily join sessions without needing to create an account
5. Teacher’s interface that graphically displays analytics from group sessions, allowing teachers to understand what their students have learned or need to improve on.
6. Support individual sessions on top of collaborative game sessions

## Top Two to Three Scenarios

### Scenario #1
Matthew L. Jebra is a math teacher who notices that his students are falling behind in algebra and aren’t engaging with the material. As a tech-savvy teacher, he sees this as an opportunity to find a unique and tech-based solution for this problem. He finds a service that will allow students to participate in real time from their own devices, and simply creates an account to set up a group session. With a quick search through the pre-existing material, Matthew selects the topic his students are struggling with and starts the game. Now all he needs to do is display the join code and allow his students to enter the code on their devices. Afterwards, he can see which class of problems his students need to improve on and have already mastered.

### Scenario #2
Jimmy just doesn’t understand algebra. He has difficulty comprehending the notation and the steps involved in solving equations, and he is too shy to ask questions. One day his teacher announces that instead of a normal lesson, they will be playing a game together as a class. Jimmy’s teacher displays a code on the board and asks the students to enter the code on the game’s website from their phone or school computers. Jimmy enters the code and joins the game. He and the other students solve algebra problems step-by-step to win the game with his classmates. The next day, the teacher goes over the concepts Jimmy struggled with on the whiteboard, and the next time Jimmy plays the game with his classmates, he feels more confident in his skills.

### Scenario #3
Sarah is a middle school algebra teacher who likes to make classes fun and engaging for her students. She has noticed over the last few years that her English and History teacher colleagues have been integrating student’s personal devices into fun games that help students learn about the material. However, when she tries using these same apps for math, her students complain that it just feels like another quiz instead of a game. This time Sarah uses a new app that creates a campaign for the whole class to participate in real-time while also providing much more intuitive options for solving problems step-by-step. After class, she can view how students performed across the different sections and prepare a different campaign for next time.

### Scenario #4
Albert is a high school geometry student who was intimidated by trigonometry. He'd heard his older sister talk about sine, cosine, and tangent while doing her calculus homework, so he got scared when he sees these same functions being employed in his geometry class. During trigonometry quizzes, he'd become wracked with anxiety and mentally shut down. Upon seeing this in Albert, his teacher began using Jebra's "Right Triangle Trigonometry" subjects in class. With the help of Jebra's gamified and graphical representation of trigonometry problems, Albert familiarized himself with trig in a collaborative and engaging environment. Now, he breezes through the trig quizzes that had once troubled him!

## Team Members
| Name | Location | Timezone offset from Chicago (Chicago is 0) |
| --- | --- | --- | 
| Tommy Vadakumchery | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Khiem Nguyen | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Nam Nguyen | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Daniel Tiberi | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Christopher Converse | IIT Main Campus | 0 |
| Emily Ciezobka | Chicago Area | 0 |

### Past Members (Relax in Peace)
- Isaac Kane
- Andrew Cordell

## Team Working Agreement
- We will use Github and keep items updated as progress is made.
- If we need to meet outside of class we have found a mutually agreeable time of 4-7pm on Fridays.
- If we need to meet outside of class we will use Discord.
- When we are not meeting together we will use Discord.

## Project Manager Schedule
| Week | Project Manager |
| --- | --- |
| February 1, 2022 | Tommy Vadakumchery |
| February 8, 2022 | Tommy Vadakumchery |
| February 15, 2022 | Christopher Converse |
| February 22, 2022 | Christopher Converse |
| March 1, 2022 | Dan Tiberi |
| March 8, 2022 | Dan Tiberi |
| March 15, 2022 | Emily Ciezobka |
| March 22, 2022 | Emily Ciezobka |
| March 29, 2022 | Khiem Nguyen |
| April 5, 2022 | Khiem Nguyen |
| April 12, 2022 | Nam Nguyen |
| April 19, 2022 | Nam Nguyen |
| April 26, 2022 | Tommy Vadakumchery |
